# Developing

**Important!** **_Do not edit the master branch. It is auto-generated by hugo. 
The default branch for this repo is `source` and all edits should be made to `source` _**

## Get started
1. Install [hugo](https://gohugo.io/)
1. Clone the repo
    ```
     git clone git@github.com:mrc-ide/mrc-ide.github.io.git
    ```
    You will automatically have checked out the `source` branch, which is the default branch for this repo and contains 
    the source code for the hugo site.
1. Make changes on a branch
1. To view changes locally run `hugo server`
1. To publish merged changes, from the `source` branch run
    ```
     ./scripts/publish.sh
    ```
    
## Re-generating the homepage

The homepage template is at `layouts/index.html` and edits to blurbs, 
page structure, styling etc can be made directly there.

The tab content and graphs are generating using a series of python scripts as 
follows, requiring `python3` (3.7 or later):

1. Install requirements with:
    ```bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt --user
    ```

1. Set an environment variable `GITHUB_TOKEN` with a PAT for accessing the GitHub api

1. Fetching the data from github is the slowest part and should need to be done infrequently in development, though we'll arrange to do this periodically to refresh the data.

```bash
./scripts/run_fetch
```

1. Parse the DESCRIPTION files, which requires an R installation

```bash
./scripts/run_parse_description
```
1. Generate a json file containing metadata in a format that we will use

```bash
./scripts/run_generate_json
```

1. To generate json files from this dataset run
    ```bash
    python3 ./scripts/generate_json.py
    ```
    This will also write out a file containg all repo names at `static/reponames.json`. 
    This is simply to help with the manual curation of a file categorising all the repos, found at `static/categories.json`.

1. To generate json files containing focal graphs (e.g. odin, orderly ecosystems):
    ```bash
    python3 ./scripts/generate_graphs.py 
    ```
    This depends on the existence of the previous json file containing metadata 
    about all repos.

1. To generate html snippets for displaying the lists of packages:
    ```bash
    python3 ./scripts/generate_html.py
    ```
    This creates several partial html templates, one for each tab on the homepage:
    Research, Frameworks, Tools and All. It depends on the existence of a file
     `static/categories.json` which has to be curated by hand.
